docs: Dev, SRE, Operations, DevOps - What’s the Difference (#348)
bytebase/bytebase.com: content/blog/dev-sre-ops-devops-difference.md

---
title: Dev, SRE, Operations, DevOps - What’s the Difference?
author: Tianzhou
published_at: 2022/07/15 08:00:00
feature_image: /static/blog/dev-sre-ops-devops-difference/dev-sre-ops.webp
tags: Education
description: Explain and address the confusion between Developer (Dev), Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), (Operations) Ops and DevOps.
---

> Developers (Dev), Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), and Operations (Ops) are job types, while DevOps is a system. If we take a soccer analogy, Dev, SRE, and Ops correspond to positions like forward, midfield, and back, while DevOps is a formation like 4-3-3.

Reviewer: love the analogy lol now i really understand devops 😂

> Developers (Dev), Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), and Operations (Ops) are job types, while DevOps is a system. If we take a soccer analogy, Dev, SRE, and Ops correspond to positions like forward, midfield, and back, while DevOps is a formation like 4-3-3.

Reviewer 2: DevOps is a formation like 4-3-3.  这句话后面可以加一点解释吗，对于不懂足球的人来说可能会有疑惑

Reviewer 2: Some explanation about 4-3-3 formation may be needed here, as this could be confusing to someone who is not familiar with football.

## Dev

Also called Development Engineer, Software Engineer (SWE), Software Developer, or simply Developer (Dev). Their main responsibility is to write code and implement software business logic. The logic could be fulfilling a grocery order, scheduling a cab to your place and etc. Developers mostly deal with the code.

## Ops

> Also called IT Operations, Production Engineer (PE), or simply Operations (Ops)。They are responsible for data center management, machine installation, network wiring, monitoring, and alerting. In the early days, a large amount of the operations’ work is to deal with physical equipment. This work requires a lot of manual intervention and is risky. In the last 10 years, as Cloud services gradually replace the physical data center, the traditional operations workload has been significantly reduced, and the pure Ops job ceases to exist.

Reviewer 2: Also called IT Operations, Production Engineer (PE), or simply Operations (Ops)。标点符号改成英文状态 .

> Also called IT Operations, Production Engineer (PE), or simply Operations (Ops)。They are responsible for data center management, machine installation, network wiring, monitoring, and alerting. In the early days, a large amount of the operations’ work is to deal with physical equipment. This work requires a lot of manual intervention and is risky. In the last 10 years, as Cloud services gradually replace the physical data center, the traditional operations workload has been significantly reduced, and the pure Ops job ceases to exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also called IT Operations, Production Engineer (PE), or simply Operations (Ops). They are responsible for data center management, machine installation, network wiring, monitoring, and alerting. In the early days, a large amount of the operations’ work is to deal with physical equipment. This work requires a lot of manual intervention and is risky. In the last 10 years, as Cloud services gradually replace the physical data center, the traditional operations workload has been significantly reduced, and the pure Ops job ceases to exist.
```

_Veterans all remember the exciting days of carrying such a pager to be standby 7x24_

![dev-sre-ops-intersection](/static/blog/dev-sre-ops-devops-difference/pager.webp)

## SRE

> Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), coined by Google in 2003. A couple of backgrounds contributes to its birth:

Reviewer 2: from “A couple of backgrounds contributes to its birth” to “SRE is created under the following backgrounds"

> Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), coined by Google in 2003. A couple of backgrounds contributes to its birth:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), coined by Google in 2003. The following factors contribute to the birth of this role:
```

1. Large-scale online services like Google are complex and require high service stability.
1. Developers are usually more concerned about delivering software, but less interested in the ongoing maintenance after launch. Moreover, in order to launch the feature sooner, Developers are inclined to ignore the maintenance aspect of the software. This is mostly represented by Facebook’s infamous motto ["Move fast and break things"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meta_Platforms#History).

> 1. Traditional Operations need to transition to a new role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Traditional Ops need to transition to a new role.
```

> 1 and 2 prompted the need for a specialized job function, of which 2 also serves to balance the development pace (please do not break that much), while 3 provides the labor supply for SRE. Since SRE’s main responsibility is to ensure service stability, thus it’s a natural transition for Operations to move into an SRE role.

Reviewer 2: thus it’s a natural transition for Operations to move into an SRE role 
前面已经有 since 了，thus 可以删除

> 1 and 2 prompted the need for a specialized job function, of which 2 also serves to balance the development pace (please do not break that much), while 3 provides the labor supply for SRE. Since SRE’s main responsibility is to ensure service stability, thus it’s a natural transition for Operations to move into an SRE role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1 and 2 prompted the need for a specialized job function, of which 2 also serves to balance the development pace (please do not break that much), while 3 provides the labor supply for SRE. Since SRE’s main responsibility is to ensure service stability, it’s a natural transition for Operations to move into an SRE role.
```

> 1 and 2 prompted the need for a specialized job function, of which 2 also serves to balance the development pace (please do not break that much), while 3 provides the labor supply for SRE. Since SRE’s main responsibility is to ensure service stability, it’s a natural transition for Operations to move into an SRE role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1 and 2 prompted the need for a specialized job function, of which 2 also serves to balance the development pace (please do not break that much), while 3 provides the labor supply for SRE. Since SRE’s main responsibility is to ensure service stability, it’s a natural transition for Ops to move into an SRE role.
```

Simply put, SRE is an upgraded version of traditional Operations. SRE differs from Operations in the following ways:

> 1. No longer deal with physical equipment, this part is taken care of by the cloud services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. No longer deals with physical equipment, this part is taken care of by the cloud services.
```

Author: Done

> Simply put, SRE is an upgraded version of traditional Operations. SRE differs from Operations in the following ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simply put, SRE is an upgraded version of traditional Ops. SRE differs from Ops in the following ways:
```

> 1. No longer deals with physical equipment, this part is taken care of by the cloud services.

Reviewer 2: SRE no longer deals with physical equipment which is taken care of by the cloud services.

Reviewer 2: 下面的两条background前面都可以加上主语SRE，变成一句完整的句子

> 1. No longer deals with physical equipment, this part is taken care of by the cloud services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. SRE no longer deals with physical equipment which is taken care of by the cloud services.
```

> 1. Employs a more systematic approach to ensure service stability, such as building automation tools, and working with the development team together to develop [Service Level Objective (SLO)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-level_objective) / [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-level_agreement) / [Service Level Indicator (SLI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service_level_indicator). This triplet serves as the contract between SREs and Developers to work towards a shared goal of providing a better service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. SRE employs a more systematic approach to ensure service stability, such as building automation tools, and working with the development team together to develop [Service Level Objective (SLO)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-level_objective) / [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service-level_agreement) / [Service Level Indicator (SLI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service_level_indicator). This triplet serves as the contract between SREs and Developers to work towards a shared goal of providing a better service.
```

> 1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. e.g. The author of the monitoring software Prometheus, who was an SRE at Google.

Reviewer 2: from “e.g. The author of the monitoring software Prometheus, who was an SRE at Google.” to “For example, the author of the monitoring software Prometheus was an SRE at Google."

> 1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. e.g. The author of the monitoring software Prometheus, who was an SRE at Google.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. For example, the author of the monitoring software Prometheus was an SRE at Google.
```

> 1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. For example, the author of the monitoring software Prometheus was an SRE at Google.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. For example, the creator of the monitoring software [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) was an SRE at Google.
```

> 1. Stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. For example, the creator of the monitoring software [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) was an SRE at Google.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. SRE has stronger engineering background. Some SREs possess quite strong engineering skills. For example, the creator of the monitoring software [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) was an SRE at Google.
```

![dev-sre-ops-intersection](/static/blog/dev-sre-ops-devops-difference/dev-sre-ops.webp)

The above diagram depicts the boundary between Dev, SRE, and Ops. There is basically no intersection between Dev and Ops, while SRE, as mentioned earlier, is Ops with Dev skillset, but still a bit more on the Ops side.

## DevOps

> DevOps is a system. As just mentioned, there is no intersection between Dev and Ops work, DevOps is to combine these 2 work types together. More precisely, it is to let Dev take on the Ops work. Under DevOps, there is no traditional Ops role, and the Ops responsibility may be shared by Dev and SRE, or it may be carried by Dev alone, further eliminating the SRE role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DevOps is a system. As just mentioned, there is no intersection between Dev and Ops work, while DevOps is to combine these 2 work types together. More precisely, DevOps is to let Dev take on the Ops work. Under DevOps, there is no traditional Ops role, and the Ops responsibility may be shared by Dev and SRE, or the work may be carried out by Dev alone. This further eliminates the SRE role.
```

> DevOps is a system. As just mentioned, there is no intersection between Dev and Ops work, while DevOps is to combine these 2 work types together. More precisely, DevOps is to let Dev take on the Ops work. Under DevOps, there is no traditional Ops role, and the Ops responsibility may be shared by Dev and SRE, or the work may be carried out by Dev alone. This further eliminates the SRE role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevOps is a system. As just mentioned, there is no intersection between Dev and Ops work, while DevOps is to combine these two work types together. More precisely, DevOps is to let Dev take on the Ops work. Under DevOps, there is no traditional Ops role, and the Ops responsibility may be shared by Dev and SRE, or the work may be carried out by Dev alone. This further eliminates the SRE role.
```

## Why People Get Confused

1. Confused about the difference between SRE and Ops. Simply put, SRE is Ops who can code.

> 1. Confused about whether DevOps is a system or a job function. This depends on the context. Initially, DevOps represented the system combining Dev and Ops work. This system may have both Dev and SRE roles, or it may only have a Dev role. In the latter case, the system name, DevOps, is also used to indicate the job function, the so-called DevOps engineer. After all, if a soccer formation blurs the boundaries of the forward, midfield, and back, the formation will become a free formation, and all players can be called free men.

Reviewer 2: In the latter case 不太知道指代的是什么

> 1. Confused about whether DevOps is a system or a job function. This depends on the context. Initially, DevOps represented the system combining Dev and Ops work. This system may have both Dev and SRE roles, or it may only have a Dev role. In the latter case, the system name, DevOps, is also used to indicate the job function, the so-called DevOps engineer. After all, if a soccer formation blurs the boundaries of the forward, midfield, and back, the formation will become a free formation, and all players can be called free men.

Reviewer 2: not sure about what "in the latter case" refers to

Author: Refined
